1) The individual steps are very simple:
    One single instruction rarely does more than move a single byte from one storage cubbyhole to another, perform very elementary arithmetic such as addition or subtraction, or compare the value contained in one storage cubbyhole to a value contrained in another. THis is good news, because iit enables you to concentrate on the simple taske accomplished by a single instruction without being overwhelmed by complexity. Everything is good news from here. 

2) It takes a lot of steps to do anything useful: 
    You can often write a useful program in such languages as Pascal or BASIC in five or six lines. You can actually create useful programs in visual programming systems such as Visual Basic and Delphi without writing any code at all. (The code is still there... but it si "canned" and all you're really doing is choosing which chunks of canned code in a collection of many such chunks will run.) A useful assembly language program cannot be implemented in fewer than about 50 lines (thats not that bad writing a network stack to host a website just host is about 200 - 500 depending on your level of security), and anything challenging takes hundreds or thoushads or tens of thousands -  of lines(not that bad most lines have less then 10 chars on it).The skill of assembly language programming lies in structuring(data structure and algorithms are real key to everything math at a high level is needed) these hundreds or thousands of instrctuion so that the program can still be read and understood. 

3) The key to assembly language is understanding memory addressses: 
    In such languages as Pascal and BASIC, the compiler takes care of where something is located -- you simply have to give that something a symbolic name, and call it by the name whenever you want to look at it or change it. In assembly language, you must always be cognizant(This word is in the book I would never write something like this) of where things are in your computer's memory addressing, which is nothing more than the art of specifying where something is. Assembly Language is peppered with addresses and instructions that work with addresses (such as MOVE data at B to C, which means move the data stored at the address specified by register B to register C). Addressing is by far the trickiest part of assembly language, but master it and you've got the whole thing
